PEP 674: Relationship with the HPy project (#2247)
python/peps: pep-0674.rst

l-value, but not when it's used differently (ex: as a r-value).

Relationship with the HPy project
=================================

The HPy project
---------------

> The hope with the HPy project is indeed to provide a C API that is close

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hope with the HPy project is to provide a C API that is close
```

> to the original API to make porting easy and have it perform as close to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the original API—to make porting easy—and have it perform as close to
```

the existing API as possible. At the same time, HPy is sufficently
removed to be a good "C extension API" (as opposed to a stable subset of
the CPython implementation API) that does not leak implementation

> details. To ensure this latter property is why the HPy project tries to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 details. To ensure this latter property, the HPy project tries to
```

develop everything in parallel for CPython, PyPy, and GraalVM Python.

HPy is still evolving very fast. Issues are still being solved while

> migrating NumPy, have begun adding support for HPy to Cython. Working on
> pybind11 is starting soon. Tim Felgentreff believes by the time HPy has

Reviewer 2: These sentences are a bit ungrammatical.
```suggestion
migrating NumPy, and work has begun on adding support for HPy to Cython. Work on
pybind11 is starting soon. Tim Felgentreff believes by the time HPy has
```

widely used, and CPython still has to continue supporting a large amount
of C extensions which are not likely to be ported to HPy soon.

The second concern is the inability to evolve CPython internals to
implement new optimizations, and the inefficient implementation of the
current C API in PyPy, GraalPython, etc. Sadly, HPy will only solve
these problems when most C extensions will be fully ported to HPy:
when it will become reasonable to consider dropping the "legacy" Python
C API.

While porting a C extension to HPy can be done incrementally on CPython,
it requires to modify a lot of code and takes time. Porting most C
extensions to HPy is expected to take a few years.

This PEP proposes to make the C API "less bad" by fixing one problem
which is clearily identified as causing practical issues: macros used as
l-values.  This PEP only requires to update a minority of C extensions,
and usually only a few lines need to be changed in impacted extensions.

For example, numpy 1.22 is made of 307,300 lines of C code, and adapting
numpy to the this PEP only modified 11 lines (use Py_SET_TYPE and
Py_SET_SIZE) and adding 4 lines (to define Py_SET_TYPE and Py_SET_SIZE

> for Python 3.8 and older). Porting numpy to HPy is expected to require

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 for Python 3.8 and older). The beginnings of the NumPy port to HPy already required
 ```
